HIRSH SINHA
Current Location: Gurgaon | Cell:- 7836855995 | shirsh3@gmail.com
https://in.linkedin.com/in/shirsh-sinha-69619772


Professional Summary
A creative professional, proficient in prioritizing and completing task in timely manner, yet flexible to multitask when
necessary.
Result oriented software engineering professional with more than 2 years of experience in the field. Promotes object-oriented
approaches to real-time software development. Analytical and detail-oriented.
Skills
Core Java Tomcat
Sql Maven
Spring 3 Framework Jira Tool
Java Persistence Api (JPA) using Hibernate Confluence
Web Services Using REST Liquibase
Spring-Mvc Framework Tortoise Svn and Git
Crucible
Junit3 using Mockito Framework
Sonar
Informatica Powercentre 9.0
Stash
Datastructures 
Collections Framewor
Algorithms
Multithreading

Work History
Software Developer 09/2014 to Current
Tata Consultancy Services – Gurgaon
Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products.
Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.
Collaborated with product management to design, build and test systems.
Debugged and modified software components.

Projects History
1) Project deals with various business users that are analyzed if they qualify for credit by bank. Various rounds of analysis are
done on their credit and rating history and feed files processing is carried out among different authorities and the analysis
reports are shared to various approving authority for further processing of records .
2) Developed a learning project Blogging that implements Rest Web Service (tested with Postman client), Spring Mvc and
Hibernate technologies and Maven as build tool. Basic CRUD functionality has been developed and build on Teamcity.
Cobertura tool has been used for Junit coverage and SonarQube tool used for code quality.


Education
B.Tech : Information Technology-2014
Institute of Engineering and Technology – Lucknow
Percentage: 73%

Senior Secondary: CBSE-2010
Percentage: 91%

High School: CBSE-2007
Percentage: 90%
Accomplishments
Represented college in IT-BHU in chess event in Spardha'11,The All India Games & Sports Festival.
Won On-The-Spot-Award for performance from TCS-Gurgaon.


Personal Info
Passport Number: Z2937937
Date of Birth: 03-Apr-1992
Present Address: 20/21,U-34- DLF Phase-3, ddee.


Shirsh Sinha
